## **Letter to Self**

As stated, I have been through a month into the nano-degree program and 
feel like I got stuck into this and have no idea about what should I do 
further. 

Firstly I would be proud and make myself motivated that I have successfully 
completed one month of the program by listening to the video lectures and 
solving the assignments and so I can definitely reach the end successfully 
facing the ups and downs. 

The possibilities at any step about me feeling like “I am being stuck” is 
only if I face a problem during the program, not understanding a concept in 
the course, or not able to do complete the assignment and the course not 
being the reason because web developing course is a very exciting course 
and I can only see the results which I know will be really fabulous only if 
I go through the tough parts and make the work done. At the end I will 
definitely be proud of myself for the work. 

So I would go on and never give up what I have started at the first step to 
experience the moment where I would get proud of work. Whenever I feel like 
being stuck and have the thoughts about giving up or get myself out of a 
particular thing I would first think why I started it in the first place if 
I want to leave it now. 

### **Solving a problem and tackling the challenges**

Some of the strategies which I would apply or which I have learnt during 
the introductory course during I face a problem are:

- First I will not get frustrated and go on keep up the work with step by 
step progress which at the end results in a big achievement.

- As said above that the origin of the idea of feeling myself getting stuck 
evolves only if I face problems in the particular course. So first I would 
take a small break and think over the problem with a peaceful mind.

- I would try my best to resolve the problem myself but after a time limit 
the best possible way up is to reach out to a senior level person or 
community for a suggestion about what should I do when I face such kind of 
problems.

- Rethinking about the way I am solving the problem by understanding the 
complete picture of the problem (sometimes literally by drawing the 
picture) because sometimes few important things are generally overseen 
which happens to be an important factor to resolve the problem.

- I really liked the statement which was stated in the course that “Being 
wrong means that you aren’t right **_YET_** ”. I will always remember this 
during the tough times which helps me get motivated.

The path to Job ready state is achieved by passing through the four phases 
as said in a research which are:

- The Hand Holding Honeymoon

- The Cliff of Confusion

- The Desert of Despair

- The Upswing of Awesome

Since I have known the journey in the very start, I would take my downfall 
in a positive way that I am heading towards success and the present phase 
is one among the phases to success. I will survive the downfall by 
following some activities:

- Working with someone else on the same problem

- Know their way out strategy to the problem

- By always remembering my goal to success

- Finding a strong path which leads me directly to the goal

- Focus and avoid distractions

### **Growth Mindset**

The growth mindset which I have is not limited to a particular position or 
knowledge limited as I want to reach heights and I would not stop at any 
point even if I face problems till I reach a dead end and make sure I solve 
it the other way. This type of mindset would always be helpful to me in 
motivating me to work towards my dreams and never give up at any point in 
the process. So having a particular growth mindset which can be based on 
position wise in a company, knowledge wise, etc, the growth mindset will 
always drives me towards achieving my goals and gives the energy and ideas 
to tackle the problems we generally face during our journey.

The growth mindset embraces failure as a learning experience and encourages 
us to act upon the problem rather than being stuck in the problem. With the 
help of this kind of mindset I can learn faster, and get off the massive 
ups and downs.

## **Goals as a Developer**

My goals as a front end web developer are:

- Initially I would very much want to become an expert in the 3 basic 
things used in web development that is HTML, CSS, JavaScript so that I can 
start experimenting on creating trial websites.

- I would want to develop an individual website which would very helpful to 
everyone and would be really become well known.

- I would want to be able to built, develop complex websites, such as 
Facebook, Amazon, Flipkart, etc. 

- If I would get a chance to work forward, I would really like working in 
the Google, Facebook, Amazon, Flipkart which are very much famous and I 
will definitely learn a lot working with these reputed companies.

- I want to grow to heights as a web-developer in the most reputed 
companies in the world and gain as much knowledge available in my field.

- I would like take up other courses in the near future which are related 
to the web development.

### **Questions**

- As a trainer I would like to know the demand of a Front End Web Developer 
in the near future?

- Is this online training any less than the training which is being 
provided at Infosys?

- Will there be any mentor appointed to me for this course?

- Are there any books or any other resources which are required/needed for 
working in a company as a front end web developer?